Docs: add details about Realtime limits (#9809)
supabase/supabase: apps/reference/docs/guides/realtime/limits.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: @dannykng does it make sense to have this as a Realtime guide?

Author: Enough content here to make it a separate thing. 

Plus people will see it in the side nav and hopefully realize they should read it.

> id: limits

Reviewer: Similar to https://github.com/supabase/supabase/pull/9809/files#r1003825482 let's change the id:

```suggestion
id: rate-limits
```

Author: Done

title: Realtime Limits
description: Realtime Rate Limiting
---

> Since deploying a global multi-tenant cluster for Supabase Realtime, we've implimented some rate limits to protect our infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: typo - implimented instead of implemented

> Since deploying a global multi-tenant cluster for Supabase Realtime, we've implimented some rate limits to protect our infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since deploying a global, multi-tenant cluster for Supabase Realtime, we've implemented some rate limits to protect our infrastructure.
```

Reviewer 3: > "Since deploying a global, multi-tenant cluster for Supabase Realtime" 

these "time based" statements age a lot in documents. It implies that we recently made a change to our infra, but at what point in the future do we change this? Better to word things to be timeless from the start

Also - I don't know if this is relevant for a developer. The cluster is plenty scalable, and the limits are about fair usage. I think we can just say that there are limits for each plan.

Author: Going to sit with this for a bit and see how it feels there:

> Supabase Realtime is a global multi-tenant cluster. We've implemented some rate limits to help ensure high availability for all customers.

> Rate limits are mostly configurable per project and our cluster can support millions of concurrent connections if needed. If you're running into any rate limiting and it's causing issues, please [contact support](https://app.supabase.com/support/new).

Reviewer: I would take out the following few words:

```suggestion
Rate limits are configurable per project and our cluster can support millions of concurrent connections. If you're running into any rate limiting and it's causing issues, please [contact support](https://app.supabase.com/support/new).
```

Reviewer 3: A bit more trimmed from Wenbo's:

> Rate limits are configurable per project and our cluster supports millions of concurrent connections. [Contact support](https://app.supabase.com/support/new) if these limits are causing issues.

No need to say "please" in docs - keep them unemotional and deliver the facts

Author: Done

## Limits by Plan

> Limits are set on the Free and Pro plans accordingly. See our [pricing page](https://supabase.com/pricing) for more information.

Reviewer: Perhaps it's better to write:

```suggestion
There are default limits on the Free and Pro plans. You can refer to the [pricing page](https://supabase.com/pricing) for more information on those limits.
```

Reviewer 3: There are default limits on the Free and Pro plans. Refer to the [pricing page](https://supabase.com/pricing) for more information.

Author: "default" implies we'll increase your limits on one of those plans. 

If you're on the free plan and you need more Realtime throughput you need to upgrade.

> Above the Pro plan Realtime is billed on a usage basis. We still employ limiting above the Pro plan to protect our infrastructure. If you're on an Enterprise plan simply contact support and we'll increase your limits as needed.

Reviewer 2: suggestion - `Above the Pro plan, Realtime `

Author: Addressed by referencing `Enterprise` plans

> Above the Pro plan Realtime is billed on a usage basis. We still employ limiting above the Pro plan to protect our infrastructure. If you're on an Enterprise plan simply contact support and we'll increase your limits as needed.

Reviewer: Agreed, there's only three columns on the pricing page and enterprise is the third/last.

> Above the Pro plan Realtime is billed on a usage basis. We still employ limiting above the Pro plan to protect our infrastructure. If you're on an Enterprise plan simply contact support and we'll increase your limits as needed.

Author: I wasn't sure what we were calling it.  We've called it PAYG, Enterprise and we have add-ons now...

I'll go with Enterprise.

Enterprise plan limits start at:

> - 500 concurrent users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 500 concurrent clients
```

- 1,000 messages per second

> - 500 concurrent Channels

Reviewer: Is this per client? If so, is it not 100?

https://github.com/supabase/multiplayer/blob/c443f5af0c7ae9dca8f646720fa2e2f074916e91/lib/realtime_web/channels/realtime_channel.ex#L51

Author: Yeah that's 100 per client.  We're not currently limiting Channels per tenant but we want to eventually. 

I could add that for clarity.

Author: Oh ya I added it below.

## System Limits

> Some limits apply to all projects and are not currently configurable per project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following limits apply to all projects and will be configurable on a per project basis soon.
```

Author: Wanting to stay away from time-based statements, per Copple's comment. 

Also why I said `mostly` at the top.

> - 500 Channel joins per second

Reviewer: Should probably mention across all connected clients.

Author: This is actually per node right now.

> - 100 Channels per connected user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 100 Channels per connected client
```

Author: Done

> ## Client-side Limiting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Client-Side Limiting
```

Author: Done

> Some basic WebSocket message rate limiting has been implimented client-side.

Reviewer 2: typo - implimented instead of implemented

> Some basic WebSocket message rate limiting has been implimented client-side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A basic rate limit has been implemented client-side and can be customized to suit your needs.
```

Author: You can see that's it's customizable below.

See the [Cursor Positions Quickstart](/docs/guides/realtime/quickstart#cursor-positions) section where a `eventsPerSecond` parameter is passed in when instantiating the Supabase client.

> - Default: `10` events per second

Author: These are sourced from the types?

@w3b6x9 what do we need to do to get some realtime opts in there?

## Rate Limiting Errors

> Errors could be generated in two places: the backend logs, a message in WebSocket.

Reviewer 2: suggestion - `the backend logs, and a message in WebSocket.`

> Errors could be generated in two places: the backend logs, a message in WebSocket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rate limiting errors can appear in backend logs and messages sent via the WebSocket connection.
```

:::note

> Use the [Realtime Inspector](https://realtime.supabase.com/inspector/new) to reproduce an error and share those connection details with Supabase support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [Realtime Inspector](https://realtime.supabase.co/inspector/new) to reproduce an error and share those connection details with Supabase support.
```

Author: This will be on the dot com before I merge, otherwise I'll change it.

> Use the [Realtime Inspector](https://realtime.supabase.com/inspector/new) to reproduce an error and share those connection details with Supabase support.

Reviewer: We should let them know that when sharing the token comes in the url so be careful not to expose tokens like `service_role`.

Author: The Inspector says to use the anon key, but I think I'm going to pull that out of the share url anyways.

:::

### Backend Logs

If your project is hitting any rate limits check your Realtime logs. Realtime logs can be accessed at `https://app.supabase.com/project/REFERENCE_ID/database/realtime-logs`.

### WebSocket Errors

- `tenant_events`: In the event your project is generating too many messages per second clients will be disconnected. `supabase-js` will attempt to reconnect automatically. It should reconnect successfully if the rate limit decreases appropriately.

> Some limits will cause a Channel join to be refused. In this case a reply in the WebSocket will be one of:

Reviewer 2: suggestion - ` In this case, a reply`

> - `tenant_events`: In the event your project is generating too many messages per second clients will be disconnected. `supabase-js` will attempt to reconnect automatically. It should reconnect successfully if the rate limit decreases appropriately.
> 
> Some limits will cause a Channel join to be refused. In this case a reply in the WebSocket will be one of:

Reviewer 4: Can/should we be more specific than "when the rate limit decreases appropriately"?
```suggestion
- `tenant_events`: Clients will be disconnected if your project is generating too many messages per second. `supabase-js` will attempt to reconnect automatically when the rate limit decreases appropriately.

Some limits can cause a Channel join to be refused and the WebSocket returns one of the following messages:
```

Author: It's actually when their "message rate" decreases appropriately.  I can get in to specifically how we calculate the current rate but didn't want to do that just yet.

> - `too_many_channels`: Too many channels currently joined for a single user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `too_many_channels`: Too many channels currently joined for a single client.
```

I might have missed it elsewhere but let's call these clients instead of user.

Author: Yep, done

- `too_many_connections`: Too many total concurrent connections for a project.
- `too_many_joins`: Too many Channel joins per second.

:::note

> Use Chroms DevTools to find the WebSocket initiation request and view individual messages.

Reviewer 2: typo - Chroms instead of Chrome

Author: Changed to `your browser's developer tools`

> Use Chroms DevTools to find the WebSocket initiation request and view individual messages.

Reviewer: Let's not assume everyone uses Chrome:

```suggestion
Use your browser's networking tab to find the WebSocket initiation request and view individual messages.
```

What if devs are using Realtime server-side?

Author: They can use the Realtime Inspector.

:::

## Payload Limits

> Realtime has a PubSub message payload size limit of 1 megabyte.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Realtime has a single message payload size limit of 1 megabyte.
```

Will this be configurable on a per project basis in the future?

Author: Maybe

Reviewer 3: "Broadcast has a message payload size limit of 1 megabyte" 

I don't think we want 1MB Presence payloads

Author: Definitely. 

There is actually going to be an object keys limit for presence. 

And a separate message rate limit.

Probably a good idea to just go ahead and make something up for now.

Author: @kiwicopple added some Presence stuff

---

> id: rate-limits

Reviewer 3: should we rename this file "rate-limits.mdx"? Not sure if that matters for the URL?

Reviewer 4: Doesn't matter for the URL but let's do it for consistency.
